= Snapped, a quick photoblog

== Overview

Snapped is a quick photoblog to quickly place Flickr photos 
on a pedestal. I use Snapped: http://snapped.bjhess.com

Think of it as the first iteration of your photoblog. There's
so little code, you can adapt it to your purpose like easy.

== Features

Snapped makes posting photos a breeze. Take the URL to any
Flickr photo page and paste it in, click submit and you have
a new post.

The tech:

* Flickr as a backend
* Markdown for descriptions
* Atom feed
* Sinatra
* MongoDB with MongoMapper
* Easy deployment via Heroku + MongoHQ

== Dependencies

You gotta have MongoDB installed locally, son. You gotta sign
up for a free Heroku account and install the free MongoHQ addon.
Bundler should get all the gems for you.

== Setup

Edit main.rb and change the Blog config struct at the top as needed. Change
the admin password and the admin cookie key and value. Just set them to any
random value you'd like.

Flickr API keys can be generated here: http://www.flickr.com/services/api/keys

You've installed and started MongoDB, right? Homebrew is your friend:
https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew

Bundler:

  $ bundle install

Run the server:

  $ ruby main.rb

And visit: http://localhost:4567/auth

Log in with the password you selected, then click Get Snappin'. Go ahead and
paste a Flickr URL in and watch Snapped do the rest.

== Database

MongoDB is really excellent. Once you have it running locally, it should
Just Work™. And for deployment to Heroku, MongoHQ is also a snap to setup:

http://docs.heroku.com/mongohq

== Deployment

Things you might need to know if you're not familiar with Heroku:

* Signup: http://heroku.com/signup
* Install the gem: http://docs.heroku.com/heroku-command
* Basics for pushing your app to Heroku: http://docs.heroku.com/quickstart#getting-your-app-on-heroku
* MongoHQ for your DB: http://docs.heroku.com/mongohq

== Credits

Created by Barry Hess

Snapped is heavily influenced by the blogging software, Scanty (http://github.com/adamwiggins/scanty).
In fact, this project was started with Scanty and then heavily modified to become Snapped.

Much props also to photoblog: https://github.com/dannyw/photoblog

Copyright (c) 2011 Barry Hess. Released under the MIT license: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

http://github.com/bjhess/snapped

http://bjhess.com

